Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you very much, everyone's participation, and thank you
again. Thank you very much, everyone, all your participation and making time and make effort,
joyful effort to the teaching. Thank you. Thank you. And again, this morning, we're going to
go have two sessions. First session is I'm going to talk continuously on the teachings of the great
master, H.H. Dudjom Rinpoche's teaching. Second session will be the practice of healing practices
and as well as dharma-pala, and praise for all those who are accursed to do some prayers
and thinking of them, and as well as everyone, we do those prayers and dedicate in the merit.
Those are the two sections that we will follow. First, again, the teaching. We go to teaching,
and that is again, as I said, continuation teaching, that H.H. Dudjom Rinpoche's teaching that we
've been
going through, that whenever you may be participating, like since the last year, we're really going
on,
but why is it taking so long, this short, short, to continue? And we're going to let it thoroughly,
let it detail, and slowly by slowly so that it will is absorbed in our heart and mind,
teaching of the Buddha dharma, or some degree, reactivating your beautiful, precious memories
that you received from many great masters, one after another, and trying to kind of bring them up
of the verbal state as much as we can. That's the whole intention, intention, how we're doing this
slowly, kind of walking that. So in that context, again, in order to receive the teaching, again,
in the teaching, always, whether you're studying, contemplating, or meditating,
always have the beautiful motivations, intentions. That is joy and appreciation. Joy and
appreciation,
many reasons, we activated that. And together with this, both each other, kindness, compared
to thought for all living beings, remove the suffering, the difficulty, troubles of everyone,
or in other words, removing all the suffering, difficulties of the cause of suffering truth,
and suffering truth, completely eliminated that forever, really reaching that from the heart,
heart. And then, together with this, beauty realization, beauty and understanding of the
Vedayana teachings, so kind of activated, all those are also we received teachings,
we all received teachings, so not just leave that on the side somewhere, but really bring up that
word really in the right now moment, just bring up those. Those are practices, those are not just
heart of the practices, foundation of the practices, central column of our practice,
or journey to the Buddhahood, enlightenment. So therefore, we should not miss the point,
the true essence of the dharmas. With those thought, again, we go continually on the teachings
on this, that, and yes, again, we are on the last line of this first page, and we discussed
about the teachers yesterday, all the variety of different teachers, according to the Buddha
teaching, in the context of the three yanas, or Vinaya teachings, Sutra Mahayana teaching,
and the Vedayana teachings, those are qualifications in explaining the teaching. And again, we went
yesterday, generally there is a board of four different categories of teachers, we are talking
about ordinary teachers, ordinary teachers. That means all many of the teachers can be
still rigorous and in the beings, as like many of we, we are simple human beings, we are all human
beings. Maybe many of those are really just simple human beings. Therefore, teaching is something
important in the teaching said in the Buddhism. Therefore, the qualification teacher or good
teacher is good for the practitioners if we like to do. So those are, for that reason, the greatest
teacher Buddha highlighted all those qualifications, how the good teachers are. And those are, we
went
yesterday, again, there's more than what we mentioned or what I said yesterday, there's really
many, I'm sure many of you already know those things, but I went to highlight of those three
different groups, as I said. And now there's maybe too many, too many I can't, can't figure out all
that. How that is also summarized by the great master, Jungwoo Kontorem, he summarized this,
and really this all can be in this followingness, following points, following statements. And that
is again, I will listed that and then go over. I mean, of course you will know what I mean, I'm
saying you will know that. And the fourth one is one or teacher, one who maintains or keeping the
vows and the samayas. That is one teacher, one who's keeping the vows and the samayas.
And the second is teachers that have the lineage teachings, lineage teachings.
And the third, that lineage teaching is not spoiled or interrupted or tarnished as the golden
change, tarnished thought. Fourth one, the teacher who has knowledge of the Buddha's teachings,
of the Kanjur and the Dhanjur, or Ka, Timju, and Jyu in the teachings said so, or great master,
Jungwoo Kontorem said, that means the old Buddha teachings, Sotarak teachings, and Tantra teachings
,
as well as the commentary teaching, some really knowledge they have, knowledge they have that
teaching. The last one is very kindness, compassionators. Compassionators, those are the
highlighted
and summarized qualities of the teachers. All those what we went yesterday can be summarized
onto that. This, first is that teacher who's maintaining to the vows and the samayas,
that dependent teacher, if that teacher is abasakas, or male and females, all the other,
that teacher is a body, Mahayana practitioner, and then bodhicata vows, or bodhisattva vows,
if that teacher is a practitioner of the Vedayana teaching, and then Vedayana vows and the samayas,
so maintaining those, and those are all listed in the teaching that many of you know that,
so I'm not going to talk over those things, but those samayas and vows are keeping quite the
good intact status. Second is the lineages. Lineage teaching that started from the Buddha
Samyas and the Badras, all the way until now, that lineage teaching is not what in the teaching
you say, see the golden chain of the lineage, not tarnished or broken, pure lineage teaching,
the authentic lineage teaching, it's not just making up things and spreading that,
but it's truly, there's no drama, there's no immediately, directly is continuation teachings.
Those lineage teachings are then, I mean again, so that's not tarnished, not interrupted.
And then next one is, what's called, did I mention that there is this third one that who have the
lineage instructions, repeat instructions, I said that, no that's really the third one,
then third one, so please insult that. Third one, who keep the, have the pit instructions
and lineage instructions, maintain that, so that means this lineage, such as from the mind-to-mind
estimation lineages, symbolic estimation lineage, oral estimation lineage, and the Kama
instructions,
thermal instructions, all that maintain the well kept and who received, and that means
that teacher is also practices, meditating on that topic, in some degree, realizations,
realizations. And then that teacher, the next one, the fourth one, is then have the knowledge
of the Buddha's teachings, on the teachings and as well as commentaries, all that antara
and sattaras and commentary teachings, some knowledge. And then the fifth one is kindness
in the compassion networks, kindness and compassion networks. Those are the summarized
qualifications of the, qualified teachers, whether that is man or that is woman,
woman. And that also what in the great master popular number you said in the teaching,
teaching said in the world is my perfect teacher, whenever you know and read that,
at the very beginning of that, one of the sections, how to contract with teacher or how to search
the
teacher, at that beginning of that he said, the teacher, one is, is a contract with so many great
masters. Teacher, one who is a contract with many great masters, accorded their instructions,
practiced and meditated, and now that teacher is authentically sharing that teaching
to the others who are interested, to that great teacher, I pay homage. That's great master
popular number you said. So that also indicating teacher is a practitioner or teachers are
practitioners. Teachers are received so many teachings, the content with qualified teachers.
As they practice, as they receive the teaching, now they're sharing that with others, those who are
interested in this. To that great teacher, or unequal, what great master popular number you said,
unequal, the great teacher, I pay homage. I pay respect. So that is what the teacher is.
And that means also teacher is not enlightened, as we said. It's human beings. Teachers are human
beings, but they're doing the best practices and with those, those are the qualifications.
Now we mentioned very kind of little bit detail on the way in one way, even though there's many
about the qualified teachers, but then also in the Buddha teaching said qualified students.
That is also important to make sure this connection, relationship between student and a teacher is
long lasting call of connections, not just for short times or lunch breaks or just one week or
day breaks or something. It's long last connections, according Buddhism. It is. And whether they're
,
for example, the teacher is alive or teacher is still past or entered the Mahabharata in Nirvana,
your root teacher will be a root teacher, according Buddhism, until we reach enlightenment.
And one day, therefore, always, I'm sure you read in the books, you heard that.
I hold the teacher, great teacher, until I reach the enlightenment.
And please hold me throughout my lives. Guide me throughout the lives. So let me be sure that I
reach enlightenment. Those are the really praise, those devotional prayers. When you reach the
qualified, when you had the contact, that contact. So teacher, again, a student, there's so many
explanation of the qualifications of the students that that qualifications. But to summarize that,
again, what great master, Master Arya Deva, foremost disciple of the Nagar Juna, he highlighted
these three ways, simple three ways. That disciple or that listener, he said, listeners, that means
we're going to receive the teaching. Listening first is very honest, positive, honest, and smart,
and genuinely interested to the teaching. Those three are the qualities.
That is a whistle to transfer the teachings.
Zuni means what? In the Tibetan world, Zuni, I translated it honest, but it also means
the very open mind. It means open mind, relaxed, not partiality, not so kind of extreme,
not just kind of like, oh, I'm the best, or they're the bad. Come to that attitude.
Open mind, honest, calm, and peaceful. Open mind. And the Lodi in the Tibetan world,
I translated smart. Smart means have the knowledge or distinctive knowledge. What is good? What is
bad? What is wrong? So that means full of common sense, nice, basic, good common sense.
Which is good, which is bad, or this is right, this is not correct. Correct. Kind of that
distinctively, clearly shining the intelligence in the heart and the mind. Mind. That is
distinctively. The Lodi, smartness. And then third, call it toneyarva in the translate,
I said, who are keen, interesting on the learning and practicing dharma, keen,
interesting. Not just say, kind of like, oh, I'm trying, I'm going to think this, that,
but very strong determination. Lodi, all the life stories of the ancient, those great practitioners
.
How really they also explore their loyalty, their dedication, their determination, their courage,
their commitment, their patience, how they did. All those great masters we read in the books
and life stories, they not come as great masters. They become as great masters because of the
pursuing their keen interest of that, never give up that, never left it. Continue to maintain and
hold, stay on the truck, trucks, not just a one day show, two day shows, or just testing that.
But really maintaining and the loyalty, loyalty to the teaching, loyalty to dharma,
and loyalty to the teacher, and loyalty to the lineage. This means, again, it's not something
that we are dragging ourselves, forcing ourselves. The generally Buddha teaching, all is loving
kindness, compassion, respect and appreciation, calm and peaceful, and as well as it's deceiving
and giving. It's not some kind of trap or something, or we have to be loyalty, we have to be strong
.
It's not the tormented. It's not something that is totally kind of desperate situation.
When we keep up this, it opens our heart and mind. Our courage and commitment and
patient growth, deepness, all negativities and obscurations are really going away.
Going away with the more sunlight, the sunlight and our horizon of the ego-clinging mountains
are more now beginning to see. Coming to shine, and that is what the teaching said. So therefore,
those are the simple, condensed qualifications of the students, practitioners.
Now, when you have that student, or when you have to meet the teacher, when you have to qualify the
teacher, and when you begin to practice this, what great master in teaching always said.
Generally, what in teaching is that you can read in the words of my perfect teachers. First of all,
the student should be be expert to searching the perfect teachers. And those are all we went
through, in a way, all the qualifications. Once you regard the qualifications of your teachers, be
expert with the contract with the teachers. Be expert. That is important. Now we have to keep the
relationships, connection with the teacher. As I said earlier, or in Buddhism, it's not short time,
but it's long time until we reach enlightenment, by the hood. So we keep that connection. Therefore
,
be expert. Contact with the teacher. Again, that is teaching. So many teachings in the Buddha
teaching mentioned this, always really mentioned. What in the suttas called "dungvok" or "suttas".
And there, Buddha said, there's four different intentions you should contact with the teachers.
Four intention ways. Four intention that students or practitioners, we should see the teacher
as expert doctor, M.D. M.D. Our self, we should see as patients, patients. And you should see dh
arma
as a medicine. Dharma as medicines. Practicing dharma as taking medicine to remove the sickness.
So those are by great by gracious teacher, Buddha, you should contact the teacher
with four different intentions. Those four different intentions. Sure. Then in that teaching said,
teachers should see as warriors. When they're going into the difficult jungles or the
difficult passages, a warrior will protect us. That's a protractor that will go through those
passages. And we should see teachers as sellers, captains, stills, those qualified teachers.
And then, of course, each time intention, those are one after another, I won't go over that,
but you can connect to that. So that means we should see, for example, a warrior, we should see
ourself as travelers. Travelers. So forth. I mean, with those intentions there.
And then what the great master, M.D. M.D., one who taught, I mean, is a very famous teaching, 37
practice of the Bodhisattvas.
In that teaching, what he said, he said, home, I contract, home, I contract, that means referring
to this teacher. Qualified teacher, when I contract, it will demolish or reduce my negativities
and increasing the old good qualities. What that means? Good qualities. In Buddhism,
good qualities are the qualities of the moralities, qualities of the concentrations,
qualities of the wisdoms, or qualities of the knowledge of the Buddha's teachings,
and the qualities of the realization, long ago, talk with you, long ago, talk with you in it.
Now, coming as like waxing moons, increase them, that spiritual friend, we should,
practitioners should honor as one's own body and contract. See as dear as one's own body. That is
the practice of the Bodhisattvas, the great master. I mean, you know, many of you started
that teaching, that that is. Contract like that. So this is one. And therefore, then when you
contract,
what do I do? In the, often in the practice of lineages, trying to do two, three, three different
ways. Contract, make connection with the material offerings, make connection with the support of
the
physical, verbally, mentally, and make offerings through the practices. Those are the three
different ways to contracting and keeping the connection with the teacher. And first is material,
material offerings, so all the gifts, so whatever. And the second is your services,
helping, supporting. That teacher, we remember, you remember, is also human beings. Maybe needs
some support, help us, not just to receive the teaching and the leave, kind of neglected as like,
like unnecessary, kind of unimportant, but also help and support to that,
that teachers, we and the teachers go according your capabilities or readiness. So that is the
second,
offerings or second. Third one is the, or the best one is then practice, offering of the practices,
practice, meditation, study in the teaching, learn that, really hold the lineage teachings.
Maintain the lineage teaching. What in the teaching said, what the great masters in the
teaching said, be as honey bees. Extract the honey from the flowers without hurting the flowers.
Be expert as honey bees. That student, so that means got all the honey in benefit, but same time
left the beauty of the flower and the spreading of the pollens. That means teachings, the messages
spreading out. Like be expert, be as honeys. Oh sorry, honey bees. That's what really said,
to contact the teachers. Contract and that you're keeping relationship, you're keeping,
or we're keeping not just you, we're keeping the our lineage, the relationship to the teacher,
we're keeping our legacy and the same time upholding the supreme wish of our great masters,
great teachers. So that is how we contract. And then here, and here I said for example,
here, what I said here, in particularly devoted to the root teachers. This, what means root
teacher, this is in the Vedayana teaching, teaching but also is not just only Vedayana and
generally,
the principal teacher, something that you're important teacher to you, something important
for you, your growth of the knowledge in Muslims. That is called root teacher. In Vedayana teaching
,
root teaching, how you refer, that root teacher is one who give the empowerment and transmission,
one he give the, or one who give not he, he or he, either can, and one who give, give the
explanation
of the teaching, one call, and one who give the instructions. So one call, that's what the teaching
says. So means one who give the empowerment and the transmissions, one who explain the teachings,
and then one who give the also pit instructions or the ultimate instructions of the lineage
teaching,
transferring, those are named as root teachers. So to that connect with that, and then I said,
you should contract with the teacher with respect and appreciation, and joy and devotion.
That you all know. That's known as devotion. Devotion is, I think, stronger than the fed,
or stronger and is more deeper than in it. But you have two words, tebādne mugu, two words.
Tebā means fed, f-a-i-t-h, I think fed. Those are fed, are what in the teaching said,
the interesting fed, desiring fed, and uncheckable fed, undefeatable fed, or no return fed.
Those are the category that dance you develop the fed. Then when the fourth one or third one come,
then it become the devotions, the precious, precious richness, and connected with affections
and really appreciations. Appreciations, not just, oh, I like this and that, but
something that bounded deeper levels with appreciation, respect, and loving kindness
to each other. Those are, I think, I think, devotions. So that those are what here,
he's only doing what he said, and it's not just him, but is that when we have that devotion,
when we have that connection to the teacher, we delay very loyalty connection to the teacher,
to the lineage, that is known as reach of the practitioners. Why is called the richness?
Because when we are that, our, the growth of the realization is now coming up, not drying up,
it's lashing, as a booming, as a spring, spring is really coming up. Then it makes reach,
our heart reach, realization reach, knowledge reach, experience reach, common sense reach,
and our ego clings, and all the negative emotions going down and down. We are more grounded down to
the earth, more humble, more simple, more respectful, more appreciative, really begin to see the
beauty
of this world, learn and grow, and the importance of everyone. Those, all the bundles of knowledge,
the riches are shining in our heart and mind. That is wealth. This is not wealth of the material,
something that we own, and we pray and hope, and then kind of lost it, and we leave. But that is,
this reach, according to Buddhism, this reach, we will leave this world with this reach.
We leave this world, not going to leave behind everything. This reach going to come with us.
Really, a current teaching. This will make our, our side reach, reach on the pardo.
This will make reach on the spiritual lives. This is a current, and this that, and our,
all the negative with this are decreasing, negative, negative obscurations. All the
matrices are increasing. We leave that with that. Two merits are what the great mass of each other
could be used as the wings of the bird. We fly with that merits. We shed away the old,
unnecessary burden of the negative emotions, lighten up, clear away those things. Really,
a culture. So that is what this reach is, reach is. And so maybe I'll stop here, this today here,
because I think our time that, and then I go continually like this, slowly by slowly,
and then we through this, go this over the teachings, teachings. Thank you very much
again for your participation. Thank you again, everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you,
everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Now we do, as I said, the first session we do just one
short dedicated prayer. And then after that, we do the healing practice or the second session.
So we do short dedicated prayer. And again, this, this many of you know, and by heart,
I think that's one word. This is in the Buddha teaching, this is the Buddha's word, this teaching,
this person when we joined is Buddha's word in, it is in the according to teaching, teaching,
it is in the Lalita Vasuta Sutras, the Buddha's long life story of the Buddha's teaching, teaching
all the, in a way, it is ultra-Bhagavati of the Buddha's. And there, I think this is the word is,
so we join this one of these fellows. By this merit, may all obtain the omniscient,
may defeat the wrong drawing from the strong waves of the birth, origin, sickness, and death.
From the ocean of the samsara, may I free all beings.
Okay. Thank you, everyone. Thank your participation. Thank you.